<!--
SPDX-FileCopyrightText: 2023 Iván SZKIBA

SPDX-License-Identifier: AGPL-3.0-only
-->

k6x `v0.4.0` is here 🎉!

Main new features:

 - Builder Service [#17](https://github.com/szkiba/k6x/issues/17)
 - Filter Extension Registry [#20](https://github.com/szkiba/k6x/issues/20)
 - Build Cache Location Override [#18](https://github.com/szkiba/k6x/issues/18)
 - Module replacement [#19](https://github.com/szkiba/k6x/issues/19)

## Builder Service

The k6x builder service is an HTTP service that generates a k6 binary with the extensions specified in the request. The service is included in the k6x binary, so it can be started using the `k6x service` command.

The k6x builder service can be used independently, from the command line (e.g. using `curl` or `wget` commands), from a `web browser`, or from different subcommands of the k6x launcher as a builder called `service`.

### Usage from the command line

The k6 binary can be easily built using wget , curl or other command-line http client by retrieving the appropriate builder service URL:

*using wget*

```
wget --content-disposition https://example.com/linux/amd64/k6@v0.46.0,dashboard@v0.6.0,k6/x/faker@v0.2.2,top@v0.1.1
```

*using curl*

```
curl -OJ https://example.com/linux/amd64/k6@v0.46.0,dashboard@v0.6.0,k6/x/faker@v0.2.2,top@v0.1.1
```

### Usage from k6x

The builder service can be used from k6x using the `--builder service` flag:

```
k6x run --builder service script.js
```

k6x expects the address of the builder service in the environment variable called `K6X_BUILDER_SERVICE`. There is currently no default, it must be specified.

### Simplified command line usage

In order to simplify use from the command line, the service also accepts version dependencies in any order. In this case, after unlocking the latest versions and sorting, the response will be an HTTP redirect.

*using wget*

```
wget --content-disposition https://example.com/linux/amd64/top,k6/x/faker,dashboard
```

*using curl*

```
curl -OJL https://example.com/linux/amd64/top,k6/x/faker,dashboard
```

### How It Works

The service serves `HTTP GET` requests, with a well-defined path structure:

```
htps://example.com/goos/goarch/dependency-list
```

Where `goos` is the usual operating system name in the go language (e.g. `linux`, `windows`, `darwin`), `goarch` is the usual processor architecture in the go language (e.g. `amd64`, `arm64`). The `dependency-list` is a comma-separated list of dependencies, in the following form:

```
name@version
```

Where `name` is the name of the dependency and `version` is the version number according to [semver](https://semver.org/) (with an optional leading `v` character). The first item in the list is always the dependency named `k6`, and the other items are sorted alphabetically by name. For example:

```
https://example.com/linux/amd64/k6@v0.46.0,dashboard@v0.6.0,k6/x/faker@v0.2.2,top@v0.1.1
```

Based on the platform parameters (`goos`, `goarch`) and dependencies, the service prepares the k6 binary.

Since the response (the k6 binary) depends only on the request path, it can be easily cached. The service therefore sets a sufficiently long caching period (at least one year) in the response, as well as the usual cache headers (e.g. `ETag`). By placing a caching proxy in front of the service, it can be ensured that the actual k6 binary build takes place only once for each parameter combination.

The advantage of the solution is that the k6 binary is created on the fly, only for the parameter combinations that are actually used. Since the service preserves the go cache between builds, a specific build happens quickly enough.

## Filter Extension Registry

In certain runtime environments, the use of arbitrary extensions is not allowed. There is a need to limit the extensions that can be used.

This use case can be solved most flexibly by narrowing down the extension registry. The content of the [extension registry](https://github.com/grafana/k6-docs/blob/main/src/data/doc-extensions/extensions.json) can be narrowed using a [jmespath](https://jmespath.org/) syntax filter expression. Extensions can be filtered based on any property. 

*allow only officially supported extensions*

```
k6x --filter "[?contains(tiers,'Official')]" run script.js
```

*allow only cloud enabled extensions*

```
k6x --filter "[?cloudEnabled == true]" run script.js
```

## Build Cache Location Override

Reusable artifacts (k6 binary, HTTP responses) are stored in the subdirectory `k6x` under the directory defined by the `XDG_CACHE_HOME` environment variable. The default of `XDG_CACHE_HOME` depends on the operating system (Windows: `%LOCALAPPDATA%\cache`, Linux: `~/.cache`, macOS: `~/Library/Caches`). The default cache directory now can be changed using the `K6X_CACHE_DIR` environment variable or the `--cache-dir` flag.

## Module Replacement

In some cases, it can be useful to use another path instead of the module path registered in the extension registry. For example, using a forked repository, or using a local file-system path in the case of a native builder. These use cases can be solved by the module replacement feature.

Usage:

`--replace name=path` replaces the module path, where `name` is the dependency/module name and `path` is a remote module path (version should be appended with `@`) or an absolute local file-system path (a path starting with `.` can also be used, which will be resolved to an absolute path). It implies the use of the `native` builder (`--builder native`) and clean flag (`--clean`)

*with local file-system path*

```
k6x --replace k6/x/faker=../xk6-faker run script.js
```

*with remote path*

```
k6x --replace k6/x/faker=github.com/my-user/xk6-faker@latest run script.js
```
